# f1tenth_drl

Deep reinforcement learning experiments for simulated F1Tenth autonomous racing.


## Installation

We recommend managing dependencies using a virtual environment, which can be installed with the following commands,
```
python3.9 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies using the requirements.txt file:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
The codebase is installed as a pip package with the following command:
```
pip install -e .
```

# How to generate results

## Generate Result Data

**Hyperparameter Tuning:**
- Run the `GenerateDataSet.py` file to generate a dataset using the pure pursuit planner.

**Training DRL Agent:**
- The `config/Experiment.yaml` file contains all the configuration parameters.
- In the file, there are five numbered tests to run. For each test, uncomment the paremters of algorithm, id_name, and map_name.
- Then run the `run_experiments.py` file to train the agents for each test. 

**Testing Agents:**
- After being trained, each agent will automatically be tested on the training map.
- The agents from test 4 and 5 have to be tested on all the maps by selecting the `run_general_test_batch()` method in the run_experiments.py file.
- The classical planner data is generated by using the settings in the configuration file for the PurePursuit planner (currently commented out under runs)

## Plot Results for Paper

**Hyperparmeter Tuning:**

- Neural network tuning
    - Generate end-to-end data sets using the `Build_endToEnd_datasets.py` file.
    - Run the `Tuning/TuneNetworkSize.py` file to generate train networks of different sizes.
    -  Use the `plot_network_tuning.py` script to plot the graph 
- End-to-end number of beams
    - Generate end-to-end data sets using the `Build_endToEnd_datasets.py` file.
    - Generate trajectory tracking data sets using the `Build_planning_datasets.py` file.
    - Train networks with `Trainnetworks_SingleLoss.py`
    - Plot results with `TuningLoss.py`


**General Result Generation**
- After all the results have been generated, run the `DataTools/Statistics/BuildAgentDfs.py` script to read the vehicle data and generate a dataframe for each agent.
- Then run the `DataTools/Statistics/BuildAgentDfs.py` to generate a summary dataframe that contains the results from each vehicle.
    - The `ExperimentData.csv` contains all the repetitions from each vehicle.
    - The `CondensedExperimentData.csv` contains the average across the three repeats run for each experiment.
- For the reward signal tests, the `BuildExtraAgentDfs.py` script must also be run. It generates more detailed results such as the deviation from the racing line.


**Training Graph Results:**
- Reward signals - average progress and reward comapring TAL and CTH. Use the `TrainingReward_TAL_cth` script
- Algorithms - average progress comparing DDPG, SAC and TD3. Use the `TrainingProgressAlgs` script
- Algorithms - lap times using the SAC and TD3 algorithms. Use the `TrainingCrashesAls` script
- Algoirthms - crash frequency using the SAC and TD3 algorithms. Use the `TrainingLapTimesAlgs` script

**Performance Results** 
- Average progress, completion rate and lap times for the CTH and TAL rewards. Use the `PlotRewardPerformance` script
- Completion rate and lap times for the DDPG, SAC and TD3 algorithms. Use the `PlotAlgorithmPerformance` script
- Completion rates comparing agents trained on GBR and MCO maps. Use the `PlotMapSuccess` script
- Lap times for agents trained on MCO and tested on all maps. Use the `MakeTimeTableMCO` script


**Qualitative Results**
- Slip angle distribution using the CTH and TAL rewards. Use the `SlipDistributions` script
- Lateral and speed deviation for the CTH and TAL rewards. Use the `PlotRacelineDeviationReward` script
- Density of speed for the TD3 and SAC algorithms. Use the `ArticleProfilePlots` script
- Clipped trajectories for agents trained and tested on MCO. Use `GenerateTrajectoryImgs`
- Clipped trajectories for agent trained on MCO and tested on ESP. Use `GenerateTrajectoryImgs`
- Speed graph for agents trained on MCO and tested on MCO maps. Use the `ArticleProfilePlots` script


## Sim-to-real Experiments

Data can be collected on the vehicle and in simulation using the nodes in the [https://github.com/BDEvan5/F1TenthRacingROS](f1tenth_racing).
The functions in this repo extract the data from the respective folder and process it into results.

The `VisualiseTestData.py` folder plots the trajectories and the speed and steering actions of all the data runs in a single folder so they can be easily visualised.
The `ExtraActionDistributions.py` shows the distribution of the actions selected on the pysical vehicle.

Generate article results:
- `Sim2RealActionComparison.py`: generate the graphs comparing the speed and steering anction comparisions between simulation and the physical vehicle.
- `Sim2RealSteeringAngleDistributions.py`: makes the plots of the distribution of the steering angles in simulation and reality.
- `DistanceCurvatureBarplot.py`: makes the plot of the distance and curvatures of five runs in simulation and reality
- `PathOverlays.py`: overlays the paths selected with a low speed cap on top of each other.
- `NeatTrajectories.py`: makes neat versions of the trajectories with labels for presentation in articles
- `FastLaptimePlot.py`: plots the lap times of vehicles with increasing speed caps



